https://www.theclevercarrot.com/2019/03/beginner-sourdough-starter-recipe/

Day 1: Make the Starter
Before you begin, establish a feeding schedule. In other words, feed your starter at the same time each day. This will establish consistency, which sourdough starters love. Consider feeding your starter in the morning when you wake up.
Combine 60 g (1⁄2 cup) of whole wheat flour and 60 g (1⁄4 cup) of warm water in a large jar.
Mix with a fork until smooth; the consistency will be thick and pasty. If measuring by volume, add more water to thin out the texture if needed. Cover with plastic wrap or a lid, and let it rest in a warm spot, about 75-80 F for 24 hours.



Day 2: Got Bubbles?
Today, you’re going to check if any small bubbles have appeared on the surface.
Bubbles indicate fermentation, which is what you want! However, it’s okay if you don’t see anything right away; the bubbles might have appeared and dissolved overnight while you were sleeping. This happens quite often.
You do not have to do anything else right now. It does not need any flour or water. Just rest the starter in your warm spot for another 24 hours.

Day 2 (Con’t): What’s that brown liquid?
During the creation process, and even after your starter has been established, a dark liquid might appear on the starter (the image above shows the liquid in the middle of the starter- it’s usually found on the surface).
This liquid is called “hooch” and is an indication that your starter needs to be fed. It also has a very stinky smell, similar to rubbing alcohol or gym socks. This is normal. Don’t freak out. Any time you see this liquid, it’s best to pour it off, along with any discolored starter present. However, on Day 2 just leave the hooch alone; you can get rid of it tomorrow when you start the feedings.

Day 3: Feed Your Starter
Whether bubbles are visible or not, it’s time to start the ongoing feeding process.
Remove and discard approximately half of your starter from the jar (you should have about 60 g left). Use a spoon. The texture will be very stretchy. Add 60 g (1⁄2 cup) of all-purpose our and 60 g (1/4 cup) of warm water. Mix with a fork until smooth.
The texture should resemble thick pancake batter or plain yogurt at this point so add more water as needed. Cover and let rest in your warm spot for another 24 hours.
DAYS 4, 5, & 6: Keep on Feeding!
Repeat the same feeding process as outlined on Day 3:
Remove and discard half of the starter, and feed it with 60 g (1⁄2 cup) of all-purpose flour and 60 g (1/4 cup) of warm water. As the yeast begins to develop, your starter will rise, and bubbles will form on the surface and throughout the culture.
When the starter falls, it’s time to feed it again.

Day 7: A Sourdough Starter Is Born!
By now, your sourdough starter should have doubled in size.
You should see plenty of bubbles, both large and small. The texture will now be spongy, fluffy, and similar to roasted marshmallows (think: s’mores). It should also smell pleasant and not like stinky gym socks. If these conditions are met, your starter is now active.
The very last step is to transfer your sourdough starter to a nice, clean jar. In keeping with tradition, you can also name it (and please do!). My starter is called Dillon after my oldest boy and it’s bright and bubbly, just like he is ;)
Now you’re ready to bake! Start with my beginner sourdough bread recipe- you’re going to love it!
What’s Next? Let’s Make Bread!
Sourdough Bread Recipe (reader favorite!)
Beginner’s Guide to Sourdough Focaccia
Best Sourdough Pizza Crust (No steel or stone!)
Feeding Sourdough Starter: My Best Tips & Tricks
Troubleshooting Your Sourdough Starter