https://www.theclevercarrot.com/2014/01/sourdough-bread-a-beginners-guide/

How to Make Sourdough Bread: Step-By-Step Guide
Step #1: Mix The Dough
Combine the following ingredients in a large bowl (I use a fork):

250 g water
150 g bubbly, sourdough starter
25 g olive oil
Add:

500 g bread flour (such as King Arthur)
10 g fine sea salt
Squish the mixture together with your hands until the flour is fully absorbed. The dough will feel dry, rough and shaggy.

Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, reusable wax wrap, or a very damp kitchen towel and let rest or ‘autolyse’ for about 30 minutes. After the dough has rested, work it into a ball directly in the bowl (it doesn’t have look perfect).

What is Autolyse?
This is the first resting period right after you mix the dough.

It jumpstarts gluten development without kneading. Strong gluten = good bread.

For timing, autolyse can range anywhere from 15 minutes to 1 hour or more depending on the type of bread you’re making and your own personal baking schedule. A minimum of 30 minutes works best for this recipe. However, when time permits, I’ll let it go for an hour. The dough will become more soft and manageable to work with afterwards.

Step #2: Bulk Rise
Now the dough is ready to rise.

Cover the bowl and let rise at room temperature, about 68-70 F.

How Long will it take?
The dough is ready when it has doubled in size and no longer looks dense.

This can take anywhere from 3-12 hours depending on your current room temperature, the potency of your sourdough starter and the specifics of your surrounding environment.

For example, in the summer the dough can take anywhere between 2-4 hours @ 85º F/ 29º C. In the winter, it will take longer about 10-12 hours @ 68º F/ 20º C. Temperature controls time.

And remember: because sourdough bread does not contain instant yeast it will take longer to rise. Watch the dough and not the clock. Be flexible.

Optional Step: Stretch and Fold the Dough
About 30 minutes into the bulk rise, you have the option to perform a series of ‘stretch & folds’ to strengthen the bread dough {click here for a step-by-step tutorial}. Although it’s not mandatory, this technique will add height and structure to the finished loaf and it’s fun to do.

Step #3: Divide & Shape The Dough
Remove the dough onto a lightly floured surface.

Cut the dough in half to make 2 loaves, or leave it whole for a single loaf.

How to Shape a Round Sourdough Boule (Loaf)
Starting at the top, fold the dough over toward the center. Give it a slight turn, and then fold over the next section of dough. Repeat until you have come full circle. Or, use the envelope shaping technique outlined below.

Step #4: Choose a Baking Pot
I bake my sourdough bread in a Dutch oven.

You can also try the Challenger Bread Pan, another vessel I use for baking, that can accommodate both round and oval shaped loaves.

The pot traps in heat and moisture which is essential to achieving artisan style bread at home.

Steam plays a key role in how the bread will open up or ‘bloom’ while baking and the Dutch oven helps to control this process.

You can use any oven safe pot that can heat up to 450º F/ 232º C (including the lid and handles).

Step #5: Second Rise
After shaping the dough, it needs to rise again.

Generously coat the bottom of your Dutch oven with cornmeal (or line the bottom with non-stick parchment paper instead) and place the dough inside.

This time, the dough will rise for a shorter period about 30 minutes- 1 hour.

The dough is ready when it’s puffy and no longer dense. It does not need to double in size.
Preheat your oven to 450º F/ 232º C during the tail end of the second rise.

Step #6: Score the Dough
After the second rise, and right before the dough goes into the oven, make a slash about 2-3 inches long down the center of the dough.

This allows the steam to escape and for the dough to expand during baking.

You can use a small serrated knife, paring knife or bread lame.

Step #7: Bake the Sourdough Bread
Place the lid on top of the pot and reduce the oven temperature to 400º F/ 204º C.

Bake on the center rack for 20 minutes.

When 20 minutes is up, remove the lid. Your bread will be pale and shiny like the picture above.

Continue to bake (uncovered) for an additional 40 minutes or until deep, golden brown. The internal temperature should read 205-210º F/ 96-98º C.

Cool on a wire rack for at least a 1 hour before slicing. Be patient!

If you cut into it too soon, the texture will be gummy…

